New telemetry docs (#4129)
apollographql/router: docs/source/configuration/instruments.mdx

For more information, see the [Open Telemetry semantic conventions for HTTP metrics](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/http/http-metrics/).

These standard instruments are configurable in `router.yaml`:

```yaml title="router.yaml"
telemetry:
  instruments:
    router:
      http.server.active_requests: true # (default false)
      http.server.request.body.size: true # (default false)
      http.server.request.duration: true # (default false)
      http.server.response.body.size: true # (default false)
```

Standard instruments can be customized by attaching or removing attributes.

```yaml title="router.yaml"
telemetry:
  instruments:
    default_attribute_requirement_level: required
    router:
      http.server.active_requests: 
        attributes:
          # Standard attributes
          http.response.status_code: false
          # Custom attribute
          "acme.my_attribute":
            response_header: "x-my-header"
```

See the [attributes](#attributes) configuration for more information.

### Custom instruments

You can define custom instruments on the router, supergraph and subgraph services in the router pipeline.

> When defining a custom instrument, make sure to reference the [OpenTelemetry semantic conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/general/metrics/), as it will help guide you to:

Reviewer: Sentence leaves the reader hanging... What will it "guide you to:"?

In the example configuration below, three custom instruments are defined (`acme.request.duration`, `acme.graphql.requests`, `acme.graphql.subgraph.errors`), one for each service of the router pipeline (`router`, `supergraph`, `subgraph`):

```yaml title="router.yaml"
telemetry:
  instruments:
    router:
      http.server.active_requests: true
      acme.request.duration:
        value: duration
        type: counter
        unit: kb
        description: "my description"
        attributes:
          http.response.status_code: true
          "my_attribute":

>             response_header: "x-my-header"

Reviewer: Not really part of writing the docs, but how will this work? Are we documenting source modifications to add support for metrics somehow? (Feel free to ignore this comment or point me at design docs).

Author: Metrics can largely be driven by yaml at this point. If users need to do something custom then they can put something into context using rhai and then configure the metric to pick that up.

```yaml title="router.yaml"
telemetry:
  instruments:
    router:
      http.server.active_requests: true # (default false)
      http.server.request.body.size: true # (default false)
      http.server.request.duration: true # (default false)
      http.server.response.body.size: true # (default false)
```

Standard instruments can be customized by attaching or removing attributes.

```yaml title="router.yaml"
telemetry:
  instruments:
    default_attribute_requirement_level: required
    router:
      http.server.active_requests: 
        attributes:
          # Standard attributes
          http.response.status_code: false
          # Custom attribute
          "acme.my_attribute":
            response_header: "x-my-header"
```

See the [attributes](#attributes) configuration for more information.

### Custom instruments 

<EnterpriseFeature />

You can define custom instruments on the router, supergraph and subgraph services in the router pipeline.

<Note>

When defining a custom instrument, make sure to reference the [OpenTelemetry semantic conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/general/metrics/).

</Note>

> In the example configuration below, three custom instruments are defined (`acme.request.duration`, `acme.graphql.requests`, `acme.graphql.subgraph.errors`), one for each service of the router pipeline (`router`, `supergraph`, `subgraph`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example configuration below, three custom instruments are defined (`acme.request.duration`, `acme.graphql.requests`, `acme.graphql.subgraph.errors`), one for each service of the router pipeline respectively (`router`, `supergraph`, `subgraph`):
```

```yaml title="router.yaml"
telemetry:
  instruments:
    router:
      http.server.active_requests: true
      acme.request.duration:
        value: duration
        type: counter
        unit: kb
        description: "my description"
        attributes:
          http.response.status_code: true
          "my_attribute":
            response_header: "x-my-header"

    supergraph:
      acme.graphql.requests:
        value: unit
        event: on_error
        type: counter
        unit: count
        description: "supergraph requests"
        
    subgraph:
      acme.graphql.subgraph.errors:
        value: unit
        event: on_error
        type: counter
        unit: count
        description: "my description"
```

#### Instrument naming conventions

> Make sure to follow naming conventions for instruments. For reference, read the [Open Telemetry semantic conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/general/metrics/). It will help guide you to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to follow naming conventions for instruments. For reference, the [Open Telemetry semantic conventions](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/semconv/general/metrics/) can help guide you to:
```

* Choose a good name for your instrument.
* See which standard attributes can be attached to your instrument. 

Some particular guidelines to note:

> * **Don't include the unit name in the metric name**. For example `size_kb` should be `size` and the unit should be `kb`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Don't include the unit name in the metric name**. For example, `size_kb` should be `size` and the unit should be `kb`.
```

To do this use a condition:

```yaml title="router.yaml"
telemetry:
  instruments:
    router:
      acme.metric:
        # ...
        condition:
          eq:
            - 200
            - response_header: Status
```

#### `attributes`

Instruments may have attributes attached to them from the router pipeline. These attributes are used to filter and group metrics in your APM. 

Attributes may be drawn from [standard attributes](./standard-attributes) or [selectors](./selectors).

The attributes available depend on the service of the pipeline.

```yaml title="router.yaml"
telemetry:
  instruments:
    router:
      # Standard metrics
      http.server.active_requests:
        attributes:
          # Standard attributes
          http.response.status_code: false
          # Custom attribute
          "acme.my_attribute":
            response_header: "x-my-header"
      # Custom metric 
      acme.metric: 
        attributes:
          http.response.status_code: true
          "my_attribute":
            # ...
            response_header: "x-my-header"
```

### Instrument configuration reference

> | Option                                | Values                                                                       | Default    | Description                                  |

Reviewer 2: This table currently needs to be horizontal scrolled to view the descriptions, we can probably find a better format.
